---
title: IKEA Place
photos:
- /assets/images/ikea_place-1.jpg
categories:
- AR/VR
tags:
- product
- mobile
---

IKEA Place is one of the few mobile AR apps that uses AR to address a real
customer pain point and is actually really fun to use.

<!-- more -->

# Introduction

Recently I have found myself spending a lot of time playing around with IKEA
Place. The premise of the app is extremely simple: visualize how various IKEA
products would look in your home. No more manual measurements and mental
visualizations; this app speeds up the process of purchasing furniture by
ensuring that new pieces fit in your home and look good. But IKEA Place is not
just another mobile AR app, IKEA Place is a product that adds value to the
customer experience by solving a key pain point in the purchasing process and it
just so happens that the best way to deliver that value is through mobile AR.
The reason I find IKEA Place to be so enjoyable and such a compelling mobile
AR product is because:

1. **The app communicates to me in a familiar way that feels very personal**
2. **The UI is extremely intuitive, and the AR graphics are some of the best
that I have seen on mobile**
3. **The app is functional**

# Communication

The app communicates to me in a familiar way that feels very personal and
demonstrates to me that the development and management team had a clear customer
segment that they were targeting. Traditionally, a large segment of IKEA’s
customers consisted of young working professionals. These customers bought
furniture outside of working hours (IKEA closes at 9PM) and looked for good
looking, affordable, easy to assemble furniture. IKEA Place continues to focus
attention on this segment, and it shows through their design choices.

After installing the app, the user is immediately presented a messenger-like
screen where the app walks through its different capabilities and prompts the
user to interact with it and send responses back. It then explains why it needs
access to the camera before asking for permission, a simple gesture that really
stands out. This introduction sequence sets up the foundation for how the app
communicates with the user.

I spend a lot of time each day on iMessage and Messenger, so it was immediately
familiar when the app communicated to me in a similar way. While using the app,
information is communicated through chat bubbles that appear at the top giving
prompts to try certain features or just simply to welcome me back after opening
the app. The overall experience feels very personal, like having an assistant
sending me messages through the app, but not robotic. The app’s messages feel
very casual and conversational, even adding in emojis.

Although unrelated to the product, I also find their promotional videos to be
incredibly interesting. One of their videos shows young adults struggling with
furniture and the other is a fun video where AR gamers try out the app. The feel
of the videos is very modern and is clearly targeted towards young adults.
You can find the videos
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UudV1VdFtuQ) and
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mUytiBfh6kk).

Through a clear understanding of their initial target customer segment, IKEA
Place makes design choices that lead to an enjoyable and memorable user
experience.

# UI and Graphics

To begin, the UI is extremely intuitive. On the home screen there are three
buttons: search for similar products, find products to place in your room, view
favorited products. The presentation is simple and the icons on the buttons are
informative of their purpose. While using the app and trying out the different
features I never felt lost or confused. The steps required to perform an action
were clear to me and allowed me to solely focus on picking out different
products and placing them in the space around me.

Furthermore, the quality of the AR graphics in IKEA Place look really good.
Objects that you place in your room really feel like they are sitting on the
ground and have realistic shadows. Additionally, the objects scale correctly as
you move around it and remain in place when out of frame. These are small things
that we may take for granted in mobile AR but when done well it really stands
out. IKEA Place is built on ARKit for iOS and ARCore for Android, I am excited
to see new applications for mobile AR emerge as both these platforms continue to
improve.

Mobile AR is often underwhelming for users that are looking for truly immersive
experiences, but nonetheless mobile AR still has a place in the AR field, both
as a stepping stone and as a type of use case. IKEA Place is a perfect example
of how by combining simple design with great graphics, mobile AR can also
deliver a realistic and immersive experience.

# Functional

At the end of the day, IKEA Place creates a functional solution to the problems
that consumers face when purchasing furniture. The purpose of AR is clear and
enhances the customer experience. The interface and design work together to
deliver value to the user and do not take away from the functionality of the
app.

Mobile AR is often a gimmick, not adding any real value and actually taking away
from the functionality of the product. Even in well designed products it can be
tough to integrate AR in a meaningful way. For example, Pokémon Go integrates AR
into the Pokémon catching experience but most players opt out of using AR mode
and most of the game takes place outside of an AR experience. To be fair, I
think AR does add value to Pokémon Go and they have been improving their AR
experience with AR Plus but it is still interesting to think about how to best
integrate AR into your product and if AR adds value to the user experience.

IKEA Place set themselves up for success by choosing a problem that is best
solved through AR and then delivers an amazing mobile AR experience that
provides the essential functionality to actually solve that problem.

# Final Thoughts

IKEA Place is a very good mobile AR product that I thoroughly enjoyed using;
however, it is not without its flaws. The app could have integrated mobile
purchasing for furniture that a customer has tried out and favorited to complete
the full pipeline from downloading the app to making a purchase. Currently a
customer would have to try out different products in the app and then click on
the name of each product individually (while in AR mode) to be redirected to the
IKEA website before making the purchase. It would be cool to see a more
noticeable and friendlier interface for making mobile purchases along with
Apple/Google Pay integration. Overall, IKEA Place is a great product and I look
forward seeing what the IKEA digital transformation team comes up with next!

**Please do not hesitate to reach out and provide commentary or feedback on this
post!**
