---
title: MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference 2019
photos:
- /assets/images/ssac19-1.jpg
categories:
- Sports
tags:
- analytics
- tennis
---

This post is coming a bit late, but I have finally finished
Winter quarter at UChicago and am excited to share some of
my experiences from the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics
Conference!

<!-- more -->

# #SSAC19

For those of you that don’t know, the Sloan Sports Analytics Conference is a
conference held every year in Boston where industry leaders in basketball,
football, baseball, etc., researchers, startups, and analytics enthusiasts
gather to discuss and learn about all things related to sports analytics. This
year it was held at the Hynes Convention Center from March 1-2 and I was
fortunate enough to attend both the conference and the hackathon that took
place the day before. The conference was especially exciting for me because in
the fall I worked on action recognition with the purpose of applying it to
basketball footage and this would be an amazing place to learn more about the
cutting edge in computer vision application for sports.

The theme for this year’s hackathon was designing a unique digital fan
experience; we were given hawk eye data and match data from the 2018 BNP
Paribas Open, specifically from the women’s matches, to complete the challenge.
Hawk eye data included the exact locations of the tennis ball during the serve
as well as information about point duration and how the point was won. We
actually made it to the finals of the competition which was super exciting, and
were given the opportunity to present our idea during the second day of the
conference. I’m not going to go super in depth into the idea and the models,
but you can find our final presentation
[here](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BKssWGDiFOuNm1bFMp-vdoyXaxEdcQsoM0R_FlYdFj4/edit?usp=sharing)
, a rough demo
[here](https://marvelapp.com/5bee3fb)
(my first time using sketch and it was an amazing learning experience),
and the final presentations
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ObPqZN-U6Y)
(we start about 50 minutes in).

During the conference I had the opportunity to hear a ton of amazing people
talk about sports as well as meet a bunch of people from startups doing really
cool work with computer vision and AR/VR (pose estimation, action recognition,
VR training, etc.). Some of my personal favorites were:

- Bob Myers, Zach Lowe, Mike Zarren, and Paul Pierce talking about “unicorns”
in basketball. It was a super fun discussion and one of my biggest takeaways was
that Shaq would still be an unreal player in the NBA today.
- Meek Mill and Michael Rubin discussing social justice reform. A truly
inspiring talk and extremely eye opening to hear about the side of America that
so many of us have the privilege of not seeing on a day to day basis.
- Adam Silver answering a bunch of questions pertaining to the current state of
the NBA and its players. The most surprising thing that Adam Silver discussed
was the disconnect between how fans perceive the professional basketball
lifestyle and the reality of players and their mental health.
- Katie Nolan, Larry Fitzgerald, Adam Hansmann, and Jeanie Buss discussing the
relationship between athletes and the media and how that has evolved over the
years. It was very interesting to hear so many perspectives on this topic from
players and owners to people who create media content.
- Malcolm Gladwell and David Epstein discussing the modern athlete and what it
takes to become a world class athlete. This was the most relevant talk for me in
terms of tennis and improving myself as a tennis player; most of the talk
revolved around the theme of why it is important to acquire a diverse set of
skills and try new things rather than hyper specialize in one area from an
extremely young age.

Overall, I had an amazing time at the conference and I look forward to having
an opportunity to attend again!

**Please do not hesitate to reach out and provide commentary or feedback on this
post!**
